doc/refman/ffi.adoc, before:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2025 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)

{{chapter "Foreign Function Interface"}}
(((FFI)))

The {{stklos}} Foreign Function Interface (FFI for short) has been
defined to allow an easy access to functions written in C without
needing to build C-wrappers and, consequently, without any need to
write C code.  FFI is very machine dependent and {{stklos}} uses the
https://sourceware.org/libffi/[*libffi library*], a portable Foreign Function
Interface library, to give access to C written code.
This library supports a large set of architectures/OS that are
described on its Home Page.

Moreover, since FFI allows very low level access, it is easy to crash
the {{stklos}} VM when using an external C function.

*Note that the support for FFI is still minimal and that it will
evolve in future versions.*


### External functions


The definition of an external function is done with the
`define-external` special form.  This form takes as arguments
a typed list of parameters and accepts several options to define the
name of the function in the C world, the library which defines this
function, ... The type of the function result and the type of its
arguments are defined in <<ffi_types>>. This table lists
the various keywords reserved for denoting types and their equivalence
between the C and the Scheme worlds.

[#ffi_types]
.FFI types
|====
| Name | Corresponding C type | Corresponding Scheme type

|*:void*    | void                     | _none_
|*:char*    | char                     | Scheme character
|*:uchar*   | unsigned char            | Scheme character
|*:schar*   | signed char              | Scheme integer
|*:short*   | short                    | Scheme integer
|*:ushort*  | unsigned short           | Scheme integer
|*:int*     | int                      | Scheme integer
|*:uint*    | unsigned int             | Scheme integer
|*:long*    | long int                 | Scheme integer
|*:ulong*   | unsigned long int        | Scheme integer
|*:longlong*| long long int            | Scheme integer
|*:ulonglong*| unsigned long long int  | Scheme integer
|*:int8*    | int8_t                   | Scheme integer
|*:int16*   | int16_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:int32*   | int32_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:int64*   | int64_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:uint8*   | uint8_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:uint16*  | uint16_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:uint32*  | uint32_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:uint64*  | uint64_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:float*   | float                    | Scheme real number
|*:double*  | double                   | Scheme real number
|*:boolean* | int                      | boolean
|*:pointer* | void *                   | Scheme pointer object or Scheme string
|*:string*  | char *                   | Scheme string
|*:obj*     | void *                   | Any Scheme object passed as is
|====


{{insertdoc 'define-external}}

Hereafter, are some commented definitions of external functions:


```scheme
 (define-external isatty ((fd :int))
     :return-type :boolean)

  (define-external system ((cmd :string))
    :return-type :int)

  (define-external ttyname (:int)
    :return-type :string)
```

All these functions are defined in the C standard library, hence it is not
necessary to specify the `:library-name` option.



* *_istty_* is declared here as a function which takes an
  integer and returns a boolean (in fact, the value returned by the
  C function *_isatty_* is an *_int_*, but we ask here to the FFI
  system to translate this result as a boolean value in the Scheme
  world).
* *_system_* is a function which takes a string as parameter
  and returns an *_int_*.
* *_ttyname_* is a function whih takes an int and returns a string.
  Note that in this function the name of the parameter has been omitted
  as within C prototypes.

If an external function receives an `:int` argument and is passed a
Scheme bignum, which then doesn't fit a *_long int_* in C, the
external function will signal an error. When a `:float` or `:double`
argument is declared and is passed a Scheme real that requires so many
bits so as to not be representable in that type, that argument will be
silently taken as infinity.

```scheme
 (define-external c-abs ((fd :int))
     :entry-name "abs"
     :return-type :int)

 (define-external c-fabs ((fd :double))
     :entry-name "fabs"
     :return-type :double)

 (define-external c-fabsf ((fd :float))
     :entry-name "fabsf"
     :return-type :float)
```

We can now use the function we have just defined:

```scheme
(c-abs (- (expt 2 70)))    => Error
(c-fabs -1.0e+250)         => 1e+250
(c-fabsf -1.0e+250)        => +inf.0
(c-fabs (- (expt 10 300))) => 1e+300
(c-fabs (- (expt 10 600))) => +inf.0
```


In the following example we use the `:string` type. C functions accepting
pointers to null-terminated strings are directly translated to this type.

The POSIX function `strpbrk` accepts two string arguments (in C, two
pointers to `char`). The C call `strpbrk(str1, str2)` returns a
pointer to the first occurrence in the string `str1` of one of the
bytes in the string `str2`.

```scheme
(define-external c-strpbrk ((str :string) (accept :string))
    :entry-name "strpbrk"
    :return-type :string)
```

```scheme
(c-strpbrk "a string" "rz") => "ring"
```

Note that it would be possible to use a `:pointer` type instead for the return
value, although in this case it would be more cumbersome (but does help understand
the FFI better!):

```scheme
(define-external c-strpbrk ((str :string) (accept :string))
    :entry-name "strpbrk"
    :return-type :pointer)
```

```scheme
(c-strpbrk "a string" "rz")
                            => #[C-pointer 7f17baf94d06 @ 7f17bafb4360]
(cpointer->string (c-strpbrk "a string" "rz"))
                            => "ring"
```

In order to pass a `NULL` pointer to an external C function, the
`#void` Scheme value can be used.

As an example, the second argument to the `strtol` function can be
`NULL`:

```scheme
(define-external strtol(:string :pointer :int)
  :return-type :long)
```

```scheme
(strtol "1001" #void 10) => 1001
(strtol "1001" #void 2)  => 9
```

Functions on C pointers are described in the next section.

### C pointers

It is very common that external functions return pointers, serving as
handles on internal structures. This pointers, called hereafter
*cpointers*, are then boxed in a Scheme objects. This section presents
the functions that can be used to deal with C pointers.


WARNING: Note that by using *cpointers* objects, one gives up the safety of
the Scheme environment, and care must be taken to avoid memory corruptions,
errors, crashes...

{{insertdoc 'cpointer?}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-null?}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-data-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-type-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer->string}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-ref}}
{{insertdoc 'allocate-bytes}}
{{insertdoc 'free-bytes}}
{{insertdoc 'c-size-of}}

Commit message:

Added a note about characters and FFI in the documentation

doc/refman/ffi.adoc, after:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2025 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)

{{chapter "Foreign Function Interface"}}
(((FFI)))

The {{stklos}} Foreign Function Interface (FFI for short) has been
defined to allow an easy access to functions written in C without
needing to build C-wrappers and, consequently, without any need to
write C code.  FFI is very machine dependent and {{stklos}} uses the
https://sourceware.org/libffi/[*libffi library*], a portable Foreign Function
Interface library, to give access to C written code.
This library supports a large set of architectures/OS that are
described on its Home Page.

Moreover, since FFI allows very low level access, it is easy to crash
the {{stklos}} VM when using an external C function.

*Note that the support for FFI is still minimal and that it will
evolve in future versions.*


### External functions


The definition of an external function is done with the
`define-external` special form.  This form takes as arguments
a typed list of parameters and accepts several options to define the
name of the function in the C world, the library which defines this
function, ... The type of the function result and the type of its
arguments are defined in <<ffi_types>>. This table lists
the various keywords reserved for denoting types and their equivalence
between the C and the Scheme worlds.

[#ffi_types]
.FFI types
|====
| Name | Corresponding C type | Corresponding Scheme type

|*:void*    | void                     | _none_
|*:char*    | char                     | Scheme integer
|*:uchar*   | unsigned char            | Scheme integer
|*:schar*   | signed char              | Scheme integer
|*:short*   | short                    | Scheme integer
|*:ushort*  | unsigned short           | Scheme integer
|*:int*     | int                      | Scheme integer
|*:uint*    | unsigned int             | Scheme integer
|*:long*    | long int                 | Scheme integer
|*:ulong*   | unsigned long int        | Scheme integer
|*:longlong*| long long int            | Scheme integer
|*:ulonglong*| unsigned long long int  | Scheme integer
|*:int8*    | int8_t                   | Scheme integer
|*:int16*   | int16_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:int32*   | int32_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:int64*   | int64_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:uint8*   | uint8_t                  | Scheme integer
|*:uint16*  | uint16_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:uint32*  | uint32_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:uint64*  | uint64_t                 | Scheme integer
|*:float*   | float                    | Scheme real number
|*:double*  | double                   | Scheme real number
|*:boolean* | int                      | Scheme boolean
|*:pointer* | void *                   | Scheme pointer object or Scheme string
|*:string*  | char *                   | Scheme string
|*:obj*     | void *                   | Any Scheme object passed as is
|====

NOTE: **About `:char`, `:schar` and `:uchar`**: +
When the value comes from Scheme,
it can be either an integer or a character. When the value is read back from
C, the value is always returned as an integer. This is because a character can
be used as a small integer in C (possibly signed) and that its value may be an
incorrect Scheme character.


{{insertdoc 'define-external}}

Hereafter, are some commented definitions of external functions:


```scheme
 (define-external isatty ((fd :int))
     :return-type :boolean)

  (define-external system ((cmd :string))
    :return-type :int)

  (define-external ttyname (:int)
    :return-type :string)
```

All these functions are defined in the C standard library, hence it is not
necessary to specify the `:library-name` option.



* *_istty_* is declared here as a function which takes an
  integer and returns a boolean (in fact, the value returned by the
  C function *_isatty_* is an *_int_*, but we ask here to the FFI
  system to translate this result as a boolean value in the Scheme
  world).
* *_system_* is a function which takes a string as parameter
  and returns an *_int_*.
* *_ttyname_* is a function whih takes an int and returns a string.
  Note that in this function the name of the parameter has been omitted
  as within C prototypes.

If an external function receives an `:int` argument and is passed a
Scheme bignum, which then doesn't fit a *_long int_* in C, the
external function will signal an error. When a `:float` or `:double`
argument is declared and is passed a Scheme real that requires so many
bits so as to not be representable in that type, that argument will be
silently taken as infinity.

```scheme
 (define-external c-abs ((fd :int))
     :entry-name "abs"
     :return-type :int)

 (define-external c-fabs ((fd :double))
     :entry-name "fabs"
     :return-type :double)

 (define-external c-fabsf ((fd :float))
     :entry-name "fabsf"
     :return-type :float)
```

We can now use the function we have just defined:

```scheme
(c-abs (- (expt 2 70)))    => Error
(c-fabs -1.0e+250)         => 1e+250
(c-fabsf -1.0e+250)        => +inf.0
(c-fabs (- (expt 10 300))) => 1e+300
(c-fabs (- (expt 10 600))) => +inf.0
```


In the following example we use the `:string` type. C functions accepting
pointers to null-terminated strings are directly translated to this type.

The POSIX function `strpbrk` accepts two string arguments (in C, two
pointers to `char`). The C call `strpbrk(str1, str2)` returns a
pointer to the first occurrence in the string `str1` of one of the
bytes in the string `str2`.

```scheme
(define-external c-strpbrk ((str :string) (accept :string))
    :entry-name "strpbrk"
    :return-type :string)
```

```scheme
(c-strpbrk "a string" "rz") => "ring"
```

Note that it would be possible to use a `:pointer` type instead for the return
value, although in this case it would be more cumbersome (but does help understand
the FFI better!):

```scheme
(define-external c-strpbrk ((str :string) (accept :string))
    :entry-name "strpbrk"
    :return-type :pointer)
```

```scheme
(c-strpbrk "a string" "rz")
                            => #[C-pointer 7f17baf94d06 @ 7f17bafb4360]
(cpointer->string (c-strpbrk "a string" "rz"))
                            => "ring"
```

In order to pass a `NULL` pointer to an external C function, the
`#void` Scheme value can be used.

As an example, the second argument to the `strtol` function can be
`NULL`:

```scheme
(define-external strtol(:string :pointer :int)
  :return-type :long)
```

```scheme
(strtol "1001" #void 10) => 1001
(strtol "1001" #void 2)  => 9
```

Functions on C pointers are described in the next section.

### C pointers

It is very common that external functions return pointers, serving as
handles on internal structures. This pointers, called hereafter
*cpointers*, are then boxed in a Scheme objects. This section presents
the functions that can be used to deal with C pointers.


WARNING: Note that by using *cpointers* objects, one gives up the safety of
the Scheme environment, and care must be taken to avoid memory corruptions,
errors, crashes...

{{insertdoc 'cpointer?}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-null?}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-data-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-type-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer->string}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-set!}}
{{insertdoc 'cpointer-ref}}
{{insertdoc 'allocate-bytes}}
{{insertdoc 'free-bytes}}
{{insertdoc 'c-size-of}}
