doc/refman/intro.adoc, before:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2025 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)

{{chapter "Introduction"}}

=== Overview of {{stklos}}
((("STk")))
((("Tk")))
{{stklos}} is the successor of {{stk}} <<STk>>,
a Scheme interpreter which was tightly
connected to the Tk graphical toolkit <<Tk>>.
{{stk}} had an object layer which was called {{stklos}}. At this
time, {{stk}} was used to denote the base Scheme interpreter and
{{stklos}} was used to denote its object layer, which was an
extension.  For instance, when programming a GUI application,
a user could access the widgets at the (low) Tk level, or access
them using a neat hierarchy of classes wrapped in {{stklos}}.

Since the object layer is now more closely integrated with
the language, the new system has been renamed {{stklos}} and
{{stk}} is now used to designate the old system.

((("GTK+")))
*Compatibility with STk*: +
{{stklos}} has been
completely rewritten and as a consequence, due to new
implementation choices, old {{stk}} programs are not fully
compatible with the new system. However, these changes are very
minor and adapting a {{stk}} program for the {{stklos}} system is
generally quite easy. The only programs which need heavier work
are programs which use Tk without objects, since the new
preferred GUI system is now based on GTK+
<<GTK>>. Programmers used to GUI programming using
{{stklos}} classes will find that both system, even if not
identical in every points, share the same philosophy.


===  Lexical Conventions

==== Identifiers
((("keyword")))
((("# !fold-case")))
((("# !no-fold-case")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-none")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-before")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-after")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-both")))
In {{stklos}}, by default, identifiers which start (or end) with a colon
"`:`" are considered as keywords.  For instance `:foo` and
`bar:` are {{stklos}} keywords, but `not:key` is not a
keyword. Alternatively, to be compatible with other Scheme implementations,
the notation `#:foo` is also available to denote the keyword of name
`foo`. See _<<doc_keywords>>_ for more information.

The reader behavior, concerning keywords, can also be changed by the
following directives:

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-none` tells the reader
that colon in a symbol should not be interpreted as a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-before` tells the reader
that a symbol starting with a colon should be interpreted as a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-after`  tells the reader
that a symbol ending with a colon should be interpreted as
a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-both` tells the reader
that a symbol starting or ending with a colon should be interpreted
as a keyword

In any case, the notation `#:key` is always read as a keyword.

By default, {{stklos}} is case sensitive as specified by R7RS. This
behavior can be changed by

* the `--case-insensitive` option used for the commands `stklos` or
`stklos-compile`

* the `{{sharp}}!fold-case` directive which can appear anywhere comments are permitted but must be followed by a delimiter. This directive (and the `{{sharp}}!no-fold-case`) are treated as comments, except that they affect the reading of subsequent data from the same port. The `{{sharp}}!fold-case` directive causes subsequent identifiers and character names to be case-folded as if by `string-foldcase`. It has no effect on character literals. The `{{sharp}}!no-fold-case` directive causes the reader to a non-folding behavior.


==== Comments
((("comments")))
((("scripts files")))
((("multi-line comment")))
There are four types of comments in {{stklos}}:

* a semicolon `;` indicates the start of a comment. This kind of
comment extends to the end of the line (as described in {{rfive}}).

* multi-lines comment use the classical Lisp convention: a comment begins with `{{sharp}}|` and ends with `|{{sharp}}`.  This form of comment is now defined by {{link-srfi 30}}.

* a sharp sign followed by a semicolon `{{sharp}};` comments the next Scheme
expression. This is useful to comment a piece of code which spans
multiple lines

* comments can also be introduced by `{{sharp}}!`.  Such a comment extends to
the end of the line which introduces it. This extension is particularly
useful for building {{stklos}} scripts. On most Unix implementations,
if the first line of a script looks like this:

```
#!/usr/bin/env  stklos
```

then the script can be started directly as if it was a binary
program. {{stklos}} is loaded behind the scene and
executes the script as a Scheme program. This form is compatible with
the notation introduced in {{link-srfi 22}}.

Note that, as a special case, that the sequences `{{sharp}}!key`,
`{{sharp}}!optional` and `{{sharp}}!rest` are respectively converted
to the {{stklos}} keywords `{{sharp}}:key`, `{{sharp}}:optional` and
`{{sharp}}:rest`. This permits to Scheme lambdas, which accepts
keywords and optional arguments, to be compatible with DSSSL lambdas
<<DSSSL>>.




==== Here Strings
((("here string")))
((("string")))
Here strings permit to easily enter multilines strings in programs.
The sequence of characters `{{sharp}}<<` starts a here string. The characters
following this sequence `{{sharp}}<<` until a newline character define a terminator for
the here string. The content of the string includes all characters between
the `{{sharp}}<<` line and a line whose only content is the specified terminator.
No escape sequences are recognized between the starting and terminating lines.

*Example:* the sequence

```scheme
#<<EOF
abc
def
  ghi
EOF
```

is equivalent to the string

```scheme
"abc\ndef\n  ghi"
```

==== Other Notations
((("#t")))
((("#f")))
((("#true")))
((("#false")))
{{stk}} accepts all the notations defined in {{rfive}} plus



* `#true` and `#false` are other names for
the constants `#t` and `#f` as proposed by {{rseven}}.

* `[]` Brackets are equivalent to
parentheses. They are used for grouping and to build lists. A
list opened with a left square bracket must be closed with a
right square bracket (see _<<doc_pairs_and_lists>>_).

* `:` a colon at the beginning or the end of
a symbol introduces a keyword.  Keywords are described in section
Keywords (see _<<doc_keywords>>_).

* `{{sharp}}n=` ((("Circular structure"))) 
 is used to represent circular structures.  The value given of `n`
must be a number. It is used as a label, which can be referenced
later by a `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}` notation
(see below). The scope of the label is the expression being read by the
outermost `read`.

* `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}` is used to reference some object previously
labeled by a `{{sharp}}n=` notation; that is, `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}`
represents a pointer to the object labeled exactly by
`{{sharp}}n=`. For instance, the object returned by the following
expression


```scheme
(let* ((a (list 1 2))
       (b (cons 'x a)))
  (list a b))
```

can also be represented in this way:

```scheme
(#0=(1 2) (x . #0#))
```

Commit message:

Added documentation on the #c(x y) notation

doc/refman/intro.adoc, after:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2025 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)

{{chapter "Introduction"}}

=== Overview of {{stklos}}
((("STk")))
((("Tk")))
{{stklos}} is the successor of {{stk}} <<STk>>,
a Scheme interpreter which was tightly
connected to the Tk graphical toolkit <<Tk>>.
{{stk}} had an object layer which was called {{stklos}}. At this
time, {{stk}} was used to denote the base Scheme interpreter and
{{stklos}} was used to denote its object layer, which was an
extension.  For instance, when programming a GUI application,
a user could access the widgets at the (low) Tk level, or access
them using a neat hierarchy of classes wrapped in {{stklos}}.

Since the object layer is now more closely integrated with
the language, the new system has been renamed {{stklos}} and
{{stk}} is now used to designate the old system.

((("GTK+")))
*Compatibility with STk*: +
{{stklos}} has been
completely rewritten and as a consequence, due to new
implementation choices, old {{stk}} programs are not fully
compatible with the new system. However, these changes are very
minor and adapting a {{stk}} program for the {{stklos}} system is
generally quite easy. The only programs which need heavier work
are programs which use Tk without objects, since the new
preferred GUI system is now based on GTK+
<<GTK>>. Programmers used to GUI programming using
{{stklos}} classes will find that both system, even if not
identical in every points, share the same philosophy.


===  Lexical Conventions

==== Identifiers
((("keyword")))
((("# !fold-case")))
((("# !no-fold-case")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-none")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-before")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-after")))
((("# !keyword-colon-position-both")))
In {{stklos}}, by default, identifiers which start (or end) with a colon
"`:`" are considered as keywords.  For instance `:foo` and
`bar:` are {{stklos}} keywords, but `not:key` is not a
keyword. Alternatively, to be compatible with other Scheme implementations,
the notation `#:foo` is also available to denote the keyword of name
`foo`. See _<<doc_keywords>>_ for more information.

The reader behavior, concerning keywords, can also be changed by the
following directives:

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-none` tells the reader
that colon in a symbol should not be interpreted as a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-before` tells the reader
that a symbol starting with a colon should be interpreted as a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-after`  tells the reader
that a symbol ending with a colon should be interpreted as
a keyword;

* the `#!keyword-colon-position-both` tells the reader
that a symbol starting or ending with a colon should be interpreted
as a keyword

In any case, the notation `#:key` is always read as a keyword.

By default, {{stklos}} is case sensitive as specified by R7RS. This
behavior can be changed by

* the `--case-insensitive` option used for the commands `stklos` or
`stklos-compile`

* the `{{sharp}}!fold-case` directive which can appear anywhere comments are permitted but must be followed by a delimiter. This directive (and the `{{sharp}}!no-fold-case`) are treated as comments, except that they affect the reading of subsequent data from the same port. The `{{sharp}}!fold-case` directive causes subsequent identifiers and character names to be case-folded as if by `string-foldcase`. It has no effect on character literals. The `{{sharp}}!no-fold-case` directive causes the reader to a non-folding behavior.


==== Comments
((("comments")))
((("scripts files")))
((("multi-line comment")))
There are four types of comments in {{stklos}}:

* a semicolon `;` indicates the start of a comment. This kind of
comment extends to the end of the line (as described in {{rfive}}).

* multi-lines comment use the classical Lisp convention: a comment begins with `{{sharp}}|` and ends with `|{{sharp}}`.  This form of comment is now defined by {{link-srfi 30}}.

* a sharp sign followed by a semicolon `{{sharp}};` comments the next Scheme
expression. This is useful to comment a piece of code which spans
multiple lines

* comments can also be introduced by `{{sharp}}!`.  Such a comment extends to
the end of the line which introduces it. This extension is particularly
useful for building {{stklos}} scripts. On most Unix implementations,
if the first line of a script looks like this:

```
#!/usr/bin/env  stklos
```

then the script can be started directly as if it was a binary
program. {{stklos}} is loaded behind the scene and
executes the script as a Scheme program. This form is compatible with
the notation introduced in {{link-srfi 22}}.

Note that, as a special case, that the sequences `{{sharp}}!key`,
`{{sharp}}!optional` and `{{sharp}}!rest` are respectively converted
to the {{stklos}} keywords `{{sharp}}:key`, `{{sharp}}:optional` and
`{{sharp}}:rest`. This permits to Scheme lambdas, which accepts
keywords and optional arguments, to be compatible with DSSSL lambdas
<<DSSSL>>.




==== Here Strings
((("here string")))
((("string")))
Here strings permit to easily enter multilines strings in programs.
The sequence of characters `{{sharp}}<<` starts a here string. The characters
following this sequence `{{sharp}}<<` until a newline character define a terminator for
the here string. The content of the string includes all characters between
the `{{sharp}}<<` line and a line whose only content is the specified terminator.
No escape sequences are recognized between the starting and terminating lines.

*Example:* the sequence

```scheme
#<<EOF
abc
def
  ghi
EOF
```

is equivalent to the string

```scheme
"abc\ndef\n  ghi"
```

==== Other Notations
((("#t")))
((("#f")))
((("#true")))
((("#false")))
{{stk}} accepts all the notations defined in {{rfive}} plus



* `#true` and `#false` are other names for
the constants `#t` and `#f` as proposed by {{rseven}}.

* `[]` Brackets are equivalent to
parentheses. They are used for grouping and to build lists. A
list opened with a left square bracket must be closed with a
right square bracket (see _<<doc_pairs_and_lists>>_).

* `:` a colon at the beginning or the end of
a symbol introduces a keyword.  Keywords are described in section
Keywords (see _<<doc_keywords>>_).


* `#c(v1 v2)` or `#C(v1 v2)` can be used to denote the complex number
  with `v1` real part and `v2` imaginary part. This notation is
  similar to the Common Lisp one used for complex numbers.

* `{{sharp}}n=` ((("Circular structure"))) 
 is used to represent circular structures.  The value given of `n`
must be a number. It is used as a label, which can be referenced
later by a `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}` notation
(see below). The scope of the label is the expression being read by the
outermost `read`.

* `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}` is used to reference some object previously
labeled by a `{{sharp}}n=` notation; that is, `{{sharp}}n{{sharp}}`
represents a pointer to the object labeled exactly by
`{{sharp}}n=`. For instance, the object returned by the following
expression


```scheme
(let* ((a (list 1 2))
       (b (cons 'x a)))
  (list a b))
```

can also be represented in this way:

```scheme
(#0=(1 2) (x . #0#))
```
