doc/refman/srfi.adoc, before:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2023 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)
// Last file update: 21-Feb-2023 12:43 (eg)

{{chapter "SRFIs"}}

((("SRFI")))
Scheme Request For Implementation (http://srfi.schemers.org[SRFI])
process grew out of the Scheme Workshop held
in Baltimore, MD, on September 26, 1998, where the attendees considered a
number of proposals for standardized feature sets for inclusion in Scheme
implementations. Many of the proposals received overwhelming support in a
series of straw votes. Along with this there was concern that the next Revised
Report would not be produced for several years and this would prevent the
timely implementation of standardized approaches to several important problems
and needs in the Scheme community.


Only the implemented SRFIs are (briefly) presented here. For further
information on each SRFI, please look at the official
SRFI http://srfi.schemers.org[site].


=== Supported SRFIs

{{stklos}} supports *{{(length *srfi-database*)}}* finalized SRFIS.
Some of these SRFIS are _embedded_ and some are _external_.

An _embedded_ SRFI can be directly used without any particular action,
whereas an _external_ needs to be loaded before use.

The following SRFIS are implemented:
[.small]
{{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
              (printf "+-+ (((SRFI-~a))) *~a[SRFI-~a]* -- _~a_ +\n"
                     nb  (make-srfi-url nb) nb (srfi-title nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


=== Using a SRFI
Using a particular SRFI can be done with the special form
`cond-expand` defined in {{quick-link-srfi 0}} which is fully supported
by {{stklos}}. This form accepts features identifiers which are of the
form *_srfi-n_* where *_n_* represents the number of the SRFI
supported by the implementation (for instance *_srfi-1_* or
*_srfi-30_*).

For instance, to use *_srfi-n_*, you can use
```scheme
(cond-expand
 (srfi-n))
```


This forms does nothing if *_srfi-n_* is an embedded SRFI and ensures that all
the files needed by this SRFI will be properly loaded if it is an external
SRFI.

{{stklos}} also offers the primitive *require-feature* which ensures
(eventually) the loading of files needed to use a given SRFI. This primitive
accepts several forms to ensure that the SRFI can be used.  For instance, to
use {{link-srfi 1}}, the following forms are possible:

```scheme
(require-feature 'srfi-1)
(require-feature "srfi-1")
(require-feature 1)
(require-feature 'lists)   ;; Since this feature name is an alias for SRFI-1
```

The list of the aliases defined for the supported SRFIs is given in
<<feature_identifiers>>.



==== Embedded SRFIs
As said before, an _embedded_ SRFI can be used directly without loading a
support file. (Note that using *require-feature* works too
and permits to ignore if the SRFI is embedded).

*List of embedded SRFIs:*
 {{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
               (unless (srfi-file nb)
                 (printf "``srfi-~a`` " nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


==== External SRFIs

An external SRFI needs to load at least one external file. This can be done
with *require* or *require-feature*. As with embedded SRFIS, using
*require-feature* permits to ignore if the SRFI is external.

*List of external SRFIs:*
{{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
               (when (srfi-file nb)
                 (printf "``srfi-~a`` " nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


==== SRFI features
For some SRFIs, {{stklos}} accepts that uses them with a name. This names
are given <<feature_identifiers>>.

[#feature_identifiers]
.Feature identifiers
[.small]
|====
|symbol| require SRFI(s)

{{for-each (lambda (x)                              ;; PRINT THE SRFIS
             (let* ((nb    (car x))
                    (info  (find-srfi nb))
                    (names (%srfi-names info)))
                (when (> (length names) 1)
                  (printf "| ~a | ~a\n" (cadr names) (car names)))))
           *srfi-database*}}
{{for-each (lambda (x)                              ;; PRINT THE ALIASES
             (printf "|~a |" (car x))
             (for-each (lambda (f) (printf "~a " f)) (cdr x))
             (printf "\n"))
           *srfi-shortcuts*}}
|====


=== Misc. Information
//desactivate numbering 
:sectnums!:
Previous section described the general way to use the SRFIS implemented in
{{stklos}}.  This section concentrates on information not given above.

// **** SRFI-0
{{srfi-subsection 0}}
{{quick-link-srfi 0}} defines the `cond-expand` special form. It is fully
supported by {{stklos}}. {{stklos}} defines several features identifiers which
are of the form _srfi-n_ where _n_ represents the number of the SRFI
supported by the implementation (for instance _srfi-1_ or _srfi-30_).

{{stklos}} `cond-expand` accepts also some feature identifiers which are the
same that the ones defined in <<feature_identifiers>>, such as
_case_lambda_ or _generators_.

Furthermore, the feature identifier *_stklos_* and *_STklos_* are defined for
applications which need to know on which Scheme implementation they are
running on.

// **** SRFI-4
{{srfi-subsection 4}}
(((SRFI-160")))
{{quick-link-srfi 4}} is fully supported and is extended to provide the
additional *c64vector* and *c128vector* types of {{link-srfi 160}}.


// **** SRFI-10
{{srfi-subsection 10}}
((("define-reader-ctor")))
{{quick-link-srfi 10}} is fully supported. This SRFI extends the
STklos reader with the `#,` notation which is fully described in
this document (see _<<readerctor, primitive `define-reader-ctor`>>_).


// **** SRFI-16
{{srfi-subsection 16}}
((("procedure")))
((("case-lambda")))
{{quick-link-srfi 16}} is fully supported. Note that `case-lambda` is now defined in {{rseven}}.



// **** SRFI-17
{{srfi-subsection 17}}
[#setter]
((("assignment")))
((("set!")))
((("setter")))
{{quick-link-srfi 17}} is fully supported. See the documentation of procedures `set!`
and `setter`. However, requiring explicitly `srfi-17` permits
to define the setters for the (numerous) `cXXXXr` list procedures.



// **** SRFI-22
{{srfi-subsection 22}}
((("script files")))
{{quick-link-srfi 22}} describes basic prerequisites for running Scheme
programs as Unix scripts in a uniform way. Specifically, it describes:

* the syntax of Unix scripts written in Scheme,
* a uniform convention for calling the Scheme script interpreter, and
* a method for accessing the Unix command line arguments from within the
  Scheme script.

{{link-srfi 22}}  recommends to invoke the Scheme script interpreter from the
script via a /usr/bin/env trampoline, like this:

```
#!/usr/bin/env stklos
```

Here is an example of the classical `echo` command (without option) in Scheme:


```scheme
#!/usr/bin/env stklos

(define (main arguments)
  (for-each (lambda (x) (display x) (display #\space))
            (cdr arguments))
  (newline)
  0)
```


// **** SRFI-23
{{srfi-subsection 23}}
((("error")))
{{quick-link-srfi 23}} is fully supported.  Note that the {{stklos}} *error*
is more general than the one defined in SRFI-23.



// **** SRFI-25
{{srfi-subsection 25}}
((("arrays")))
{{stklos}} implements the arrays of {{quick-link-srfi 25}}. All the
forms defined in the SRFI are implemented in {{stklos}}, but some other
functions, not present in the SRFI, are documented here.

{{insertdoc 'shape?}}
{{insertdoc 'shared-array?}}
{{insertdoc 'shape-for-each}}
{{insertdoc 'share-nths}}
{{insertdoc 'share-column}}
{{insertdoc 'share-row}}
{{insertdoc 'share-array/origin}}
{{insertdoc 'array-copy+share}}
{{insertdoc 'array-size}}
{{insertdoc 'array-shape}}
{{insertdoc 'array->list}}
{{insertdoc 'array->vector}}
{{insertdoc 'array-length}}
{{insertdoc 'array-map}}
{{insertdoc 'array-map!}}
{{insertdoc 'array-append}}
{{insertdoc 'array-share-count}}
{{insertdoc 'array-copy}}
{{insertdoc 'array-for-each-index}}
{{insertdoc 'tabulate-array}}
{{insertdoc 'array-retabulate!}}
{{insertdoc 'transpose}}


// **** SRFI-27
{{srfi-subsection 27}}
((("random-integer")))
((("random-real")))
{{quick-link-srfi 27}} is fully supported. Using primitives
`random-integer` or `random-real` automatically load this SRFI.


// **** SRFI-28
{{srfi-subsection 28}}
((("format")))
{{quick-link-srfi 28}} is fully supported. Note that {{stklos}} `format`
is more general than the one defined this SRFI.


// **** SRFI-35
{{srfi-subsection 35}}
(((conditions)))
{{quick-link-srfi 35}} is fully supported.
See _<<_predefined_conditions>>_ for the predefined conditions
and when it is required to load this file.


// **** SRFI-36
{{srfi-subsection 36}}
(((conditions, IO)))
{{quick-link-srfi 36}} is fully supported.  See _<<_predefined_conditions>>_
Conditions) for the predefined conditions and when it is required to
load this file.


// **** SRFI-55
{{srfi-subsection 55}}
((("require-extension")))
{{quick-link-srfi 55}} is fully supported. Furthermore, {{stklos}}
also accepts the symbols defined in <<feature_identifiers>> 
in a _require-extension_ clause.


// **** SRFI-69
{{srfi-subsection 69}}
(((Hash table)))
{{quick-link-srfi 69}} is fully supported. Note that the default
comparison function in {{stklos}} is `eq?` whereas it is `equal?` for
the SRFI. Furthermore the hash functions defined in the SRFI are not
defined by default in {{stklos}}. To have a fully compliant SRFI-69
behaviour, you need use a `require-feature` in your code.


// **** SRFI-88
{{srfi-subsection 88}}
{{quick-link-srfi 88}} is fully
supported. The only difference between the keywords defined in the
SRFI document and the {{stklos}} keywords is on the zero-length
keyword: For {{stklos}}, `:` is equivalent to the keyword `#:||`,
whereas the SRFI considers that `:` is not a keyword but a symbol.

NOTE: To obtain the symbol `:` in {{stklos}}, you must use `|:|`.


// **** SRFI-116
{{srfi-subsection 116}}
((("immutable lists")))
{{stklos}} implements the arrays of {{quick-link-srfi 116}}.

{{insertdoc 'ipair}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist}}
{{insertdoc 'xipair}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair*}}
{{insertdoc 'make-ilist}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-tabulate}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-copy}}
{{insertdoc 'iiota}}

{{insertdoc 'icdr}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair?}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'dotted-ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'not-ipair?}}
{{insertdoc 'null-ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist=}}
{{insertdoc 'list-immutable!}}

{{insertdoc 'itenth}}
{{insertdoc 'icar+icdr}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-tail}}

{{insertdoc 'idrop-right}}
{{insertdoc 'isplit-at}}
{{insertdoc 'last-ipair}}

{{insertdoc 'ilength}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend}}
{{insertdoc 'iconcatenate}}
{{insertdoc 'ireverse}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend-reverse}}
{{insertdoc 'izip}}
{{insertdoc 'iunzip5}}
{{insertdoc 'icount}}

{{insertdoc 'imap}}
{{insertdoc 'ifor-each}}
{{insertdoc 'ifold}}
{{insertdoc 'iunfold}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-fold}}
{{insertdoc 'ireduce}}
{{insertdoc 'ifold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'iunfold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-fold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'ireduce-right}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend-map}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-for-each}}
{{insertdoc 'ifilter-map}}
{{insertdoc 'imap-in-order}}

{{insertdoc 'ifilter}}
{{insertdoc 'ipartition}}
{{insertdoc 'iremove}}

{{insertdoc 'imemv}}
{{insertdoc 'ifind}}
{{insertdoc 'ifind-tail}}
{{insertdoc 'iany}}
{{insertdoc 'ievery}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-index}}
{{insertdoc 'itake-while}}
{{insertdoc 'idrop-while}}
{{insertdoc 'ibreak}}

{{insertdoc 'idelete}}
{{insertdoc 'ialist-cons}}
{{insertdoc 'idelete-duplicates}}

{{insertdoc 'iassv}}
{{insertdoc 'ialist-delete}}

{{insertdoc 'replace-icdr}}

{{insertdoc 'ilist->list}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair->pair}}
{{insertdoc 'itree->tree}}
{{insertdoc 'gtree->tree}}

{{insertdoc 'iapply}}




// **** SRFI-138
{{srfi-subsection 138}}
(((stklos-compile)))
{{quick-link-srfi 138}} is fully supported.  The `stklos-compile`
program conforms to SRFI 138, accepting all the required command line
options.

The -D x flag of `stklos-compile` will define a feature named `x` for
use with `cond-expand` in the compiled code only. It will not include
`x` in the features list of the runtime.


// **** SRFI-145
{{srfi-subsection 145}}
(((assume)))
{{quick-link-srfi 145}} is fully supported. See the 
_<<assume,`assume` special form>>_.


// **** SRFI-169
{{srfi-subsection 169}}
(((number, underscore)))
(((number)))
(((underscore)))
{{quick-link-srfi 169}} is fully supported. See _<<srfi169, parameter `accept-srfi-169-numbers`>>_ to eventually forbid the usage of
underscores in numbers.


// **** SRFI-216
{{srfi-subsection 216}}
(((SICP)))
{{quick-link-srfi 216}} is fully supported. However, it defines the constant `stream-null` and the predicate
`stream-null?` which are incompatible with the ones defined in the `(stream primitive)` library used by
{{quick-link-srfi 41}} or {{quick-link-srfi 221}}. Prefix the imported symbols of this SRFI, if you plan to
use it with one of the previous libraries.

// **** SRFI-238
{{srfi-subsection 238}}

{{quick-link-srfi 238}} is fully supported. Furthermore, {{stklos}}
adds the functions `codeset-list` and `make-codeset`. 

{{insertdoc 'codeset-list}}
{{insertdoc 'make-codeset}}


:sectnums:

Commit message:

Add date comparison functions on SRFI-19 (extension)

doc/refman/srfi.adoc, after:

//  SPDX-License-Identifier: GFDL-1.3-or-later
//
//  Copyright © 2000-2023 Erick Gallesio <eg@stklos.net>
//
//           Author: Erick Gallesio [eg@unice.fr]
//    Creation date: 26-Nov-2000 18:19 (eg)
// Last file update: 21-Feb-2023 12:43 (eg)

{{chapter "SRFIs"}}

((("SRFI")))
Scheme Request For Implementation (http://srfi.schemers.org[SRFI])
process grew out of the Scheme Workshop held
in Baltimore, MD, on September 26, 1998, where the attendees considered a
number of proposals for standardized feature sets for inclusion in Scheme
implementations. Many of the proposals received overwhelming support in a
series of straw votes. Along with this there was concern that the next Revised
Report would not be produced for several years and this would prevent the
timely implementation of standardized approaches to several important problems
and needs in the Scheme community.


Only the implemented SRFIs are (briefly) presented here. For further
information on each SRFI, please look at the official
SRFI http://srfi.schemers.org[site].


=== Supported SRFIs

{{stklos}} supports *{{(length *srfi-database*)}}* finalized SRFIS.
Some of these SRFIS are _embedded_ and some are _external_.

An _embedded_ SRFI can be directly used without any particular action,
whereas an _external_ needs to be loaded before use.

The following SRFIS are implemented:
[.small]
{{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
              (printf "+-+ (((SRFI-~a))) *~a[SRFI-~a]* -- _~a_ +\n"
                     nb  (make-srfi-url nb) nb (srfi-title nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


=== Using a SRFI
Using a particular SRFI can be done with the special form
`cond-expand` defined in {{quick-link-srfi 0}} which is fully supported
by {{stklos}}. This form accepts features identifiers which are of the
form *_srfi-n_* where *_n_* represents the number of the SRFI
supported by the implementation (for instance *_srfi-1_* or
*_srfi-30_*).

For instance, to use *_srfi-n_*, you can use
```scheme
(cond-expand
 (srfi-n))
```


This forms does nothing if *_srfi-n_* is an embedded SRFI and ensures that all
the files needed by this SRFI will be properly loaded if it is an external
SRFI.

{{stklos}} also offers the primitive *require-feature* which ensures
(eventually) the loading of files needed to use a given SRFI. This primitive
accepts several forms to ensure that the SRFI can be used.  For instance, to
use {{link-srfi 1}}, the following forms are possible:

```scheme
(require-feature 'srfi-1)
(require-feature "srfi-1")
(require-feature 1)
(require-feature 'lists)   ;; Since this feature name is an alias for SRFI-1
```

The list of the aliases defined for the supported SRFIs is given in
<<feature_identifiers>>.



==== Embedded SRFIs
As said before, an _embedded_ SRFI can be used directly without loading a
support file. (Note that using *require-feature* works too
and permits to ignore if the SRFI is embedded).

*List of embedded SRFIs:*
 {{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
               (unless (srfi-file nb)
                 (printf "``srfi-~a`` " nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


==== External SRFIs

An external SRFI needs to load at least one external file. This can be done
with *require* or *require-feature*. As with embedded SRFIS, using
*require-feature* permits to ignore if the SRFI is external.

*List of external SRFIs:*
{{for-each (lambda (x)
             (let ((nb (car x)))
               (when (srfi-file nb)
                 (printf "``srfi-~a`` " nb))))
            *srfi-database*}}


==== SRFI features
For some SRFIs, {{stklos}} accepts that uses them with a name. This names
are given <<feature_identifiers>>.

[#feature_identifiers]
.Feature identifiers
[.small]
|====
|symbol| require SRFI(s)

{{for-each (lambda (x)                              ;; PRINT THE SRFIS
             (let* ((nb    (car x))
                    (info  (find-srfi nb))
                    (names (%srfi-names info)))
                (when (> (length names) 1)
                  (printf "| ~a | ~a\n" (cadr names) (car names)))))
           *srfi-database*}}
{{for-each (lambda (x)                              ;; PRINT THE ALIASES
             (printf "|~a |" (car x))
             (for-each (lambda (f) (printf "~a " f)) (cdr x))
             (printf "\n"))
           *srfi-shortcuts*}}
|====


=== Misc. Information
//desactivate numbering
:sectnums!:
Previous section described the general way to use the SRFIS implemented in
{{stklos}}.  This section concentrates on information not given above.

// **** SRFI-0
{{srfi-subsection 0}}
{{quick-link-srfi 0}} defines the `cond-expand` special form. It is fully
supported by {{stklos}}. {{stklos}} defines several features identifiers which
are of the form _srfi-n_ where _n_ represents the number of the SRFI
supported by the implementation (for instance _srfi-1_ or _srfi-30_).

{{stklos}} `cond-expand` accepts also some feature identifiers which are the
same that the ones defined in <<feature_identifiers>>, such as
_case_lambda_ or _generators_.

Furthermore, the feature identifier *_stklos_* and *_STklos_* are defined for
applications which need to know on which Scheme implementation they are
running on.

// **** SRFI-4
{{srfi-subsection 4}}
(((SRFI-160")))
{{quick-link-srfi 4}} is fully supported and is extended to provide the
additional *c64vector* and *c128vector* types of {{link-srfi 160}}.


// **** SRFI-10
{{srfi-subsection 10}}
((("define-reader-ctor")))
{{quick-link-srfi 10}} is fully supported. This SRFI extends the
STklos reader with the `#,` notation which is fully described in
this document (see _<<readerctor, primitive `define-reader-ctor`>>_).


// **** SRFI-16
{{srfi-subsection 16}}
((("procedure")))
((("case-lambda")))
{{quick-link-srfi 16}} is fully supported. Note that `case-lambda` is now defined in {{rseven}}.



// **** SRFI-17
{{srfi-subsection 17}}
[#setter]
((("assignment")))
((("set!")))
((("setter")))
{{quick-link-srfi 17}} is fully supported. See the documentation of procedures `set!`
and `setter`. However, requiring explicitly `srfi-17` permits
to define the setters for the (numerous) `cXXXXr` list procedures.


// **** SRFI-19
{{srfi-subsection 19}}
((("time")))
{{quick-link-srfi 19}} is fully supported. STklos offers, as an extension,
the procedures `date=?`, `date<?`, `date>?`, `date<=?` and `date>=?`. These
will compare dates by first normalizing them to make the time zone offset
irrelevant, so "2000 Nov 12 03:30:10 GMT-2" will be taken as equal to
"2000 Nov 12 02:30:10 GMT-1".



// **** SRFI-22
{{srfi-subsection 22}}
((("script files")))
{{quick-link-srfi 22}} describes basic prerequisites for running Scheme
programs as Unix scripts in a uniform way. Specifically, it describes:

* the syntax of Unix scripts written in Scheme,
* a uniform convention for calling the Scheme script interpreter, and
* a method for accessing the Unix command line arguments from within the
  Scheme script.

{{link-srfi 22}}  recommends to invoke the Scheme script interpreter from the
script via a /usr/bin/env trampoline, like this:

```
#!/usr/bin/env stklos
```

Here is an example of the classical `echo` command (without option) in Scheme:


```scheme
#!/usr/bin/env stklos

(define (main arguments)
  (for-each (lambda (x) (display x) (display #\space))
            (cdr arguments))
  (newline)
  0)
```


// **** SRFI-23
{{srfi-subsection 23}}
((("error")))
{{quick-link-srfi 23}} is fully supported.  Note that the {{stklos}} *error*
is more general than the one defined in SRFI-23.



// **** SRFI-25
{{srfi-subsection 25}}
((("arrays")))
{{stklos}} implements the arrays of {{quick-link-srfi 25}}. All the
forms defined in the SRFI are implemented in {{stklos}}, but some other
functions, not present in the SRFI, are documented here.

{{insertdoc 'shape?}}
{{insertdoc 'shared-array?}}
{{insertdoc 'shape-for-each}}
{{insertdoc 'share-nths}}
{{insertdoc 'share-column}}
{{insertdoc 'share-row}}
{{insertdoc 'share-array/origin}}
{{insertdoc 'array-copy+share}}
{{insertdoc 'array-size}}
{{insertdoc 'array-shape}}
{{insertdoc 'array->list}}
{{insertdoc 'array->vector}}
{{insertdoc 'array-length}}
{{insertdoc 'array-map}}
{{insertdoc 'array-map!}}
{{insertdoc 'array-append}}
{{insertdoc 'array-share-count}}
{{insertdoc 'array-copy}}
{{insertdoc 'array-for-each-index}}
{{insertdoc 'tabulate-array}}
{{insertdoc 'array-retabulate!}}
{{insertdoc 'transpose}}


// **** SRFI-27
{{srfi-subsection 27}}
((("random-integer")))
((("random-real")))
{{quick-link-srfi 27}} is fully supported. Using primitives
`random-integer` or `random-real` automatically load this SRFI.


// **** SRFI-28
{{srfi-subsection 28}}
((("format")))
{{quick-link-srfi 28}} is fully supported. Note that {{stklos}} `format`
is more general than the one defined this SRFI.


// **** SRFI-35
{{srfi-subsection 35}}
(((conditions)))
{{quick-link-srfi 35}} is fully supported.
See _<<_predefined_conditions>>_ for the predefined conditions
and when it is required to load this file.


// **** SRFI-36
{{srfi-subsection 36}}
(((conditions, IO)))
{{quick-link-srfi 36}} is fully supported.  See _<<_predefined_conditions>>_
Conditions) for the predefined conditions and when it is required to
load this file.


// **** SRFI-55
{{srfi-subsection 55}}
((("require-extension")))
{{quick-link-srfi 55}} is fully supported. Furthermore, {{stklos}}
also accepts the symbols defined in <<feature_identifiers>>
in a _require-extension_ clause.


// **** SRFI-69
{{srfi-subsection 69}}
(((Hash table)))
{{quick-link-srfi 69}} is fully supported. Note that the default
comparison function in {{stklos}} is `eq?` whereas it is `equal?` for
the SRFI. Furthermore the hash functions defined in the SRFI are not
defined by default in {{stklos}}. To have a fully compliant SRFI-69
behaviour, you need use a `require-feature` in your code.


// **** SRFI-88
{{srfi-subsection 88}}
{{quick-link-srfi 88}} is fully
supported. The only difference between the keywords defined in the
SRFI document and the {{stklos}} keywords is on the zero-length
keyword: For {{stklos}}, `:` is equivalent to the keyword `#:||`,
whereas the SRFI considers that `:` is not a keyword but a symbol.

NOTE: To obtain the symbol `:` in {{stklos}}, you must use `|:|`.


// **** SRFI-116
{{srfi-subsection 116}}
((("immutable lists")))
{{stklos}} implements the arrays of {{quick-link-srfi 116}}.

{{insertdoc 'ipair}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist}}
{{insertdoc 'xipair}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair*}}
{{insertdoc 'make-ilist}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-tabulate}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-copy}}
{{insertdoc 'iiota}}

{{insertdoc 'icdr}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair?}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'dotted-ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'not-ipair?}}
{{insertdoc 'null-ilist?}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist=}}
{{insertdoc 'list-immutable!}}

{{insertdoc 'itenth}}
{{insertdoc 'icar+icdr}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-tail}}

{{insertdoc 'idrop-right}}
{{insertdoc 'isplit-at}}
{{insertdoc 'last-ipair}}

{{insertdoc 'ilength}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend}}
{{insertdoc 'iconcatenate}}
{{insertdoc 'ireverse}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend-reverse}}
{{insertdoc 'izip}}
{{insertdoc 'iunzip5}}
{{insertdoc 'icount}}

{{insertdoc 'imap}}
{{insertdoc 'ifor-each}}
{{insertdoc 'ifold}}
{{insertdoc 'iunfold}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-fold}}
{{insertdoc 'ireduce}}
{{insertdoc 'ifold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'iunfold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-fold-right}}
{{insertdoc 'ireduce-right}}
{{insertdoc 'iappend-map}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair-for-each}}
{{insertdoc 'ifilter-map}}
{{insertdoc 'imap-in-order}}

{{insertdoc 'ifilter}}
{{insertdoc 'ipartition}}
{{insertdoc 'iremove}}

{{insertdoc 'imemv}}
{{insertdoc 'ifind}}
{{insertdoc 'ifind-tail}}
{{insertdoc 'iany}}
{{insertdoc 'ievery}}
{{insertdoc 'ilist-index}}
{{insertdoc 'itake-while}}
{{insertdoc 'idrop-while}}
{{insertdoc 'ibreak}}

{{insertdoc 'idelete}}
{{insertdoc 'ialist-cons}}
{{insertdoc 'idelete-duplicates}}

{{insertdoc 'iassv}}
{{insertdoc 'ialist-delete}}

{{insertdoc 'replace-icdr}}

{{insertdoc 'ilist->list}}
{{insertdoc 'ipair->pair}}
{{insertdoc 'itree->tree}}
{{insertdoc 'gtree->tree}}

{{insertdoc 'iapply}}




// **** SRFI-138
{{srfi-subsection 138}}
(((stklos-compile)))
{{quick-link-srfi 138}} is fully supported.  The `stklos-compile`
program conforms to SRFI 138, accepting all the required command line
options.

The -D x flag of `stklos-compile` will define a feature named `x` for
use with `cond-expand` in the compiled code only. It will not include
`x` in the features list of the runtime.


// **** SRFI-145
{{srfi-subsection 145}}
(((assume)))
{{quick-link-srfi 145}} is fully supported. See the
_<<assume,`assume` special form>>_.


// **** SRFI-169
{{srfi-subsection 169}}
(((number, underscore)))
(((number)))
(((underscore)))
{{quick-link-srfi 169}} is fully supported. See _<<srfi169, parameter `accept-srfi-169-numbers`>>_ to eventually forbid the usage of
underscores in numbers.


// **** SRFI-216
{{srfi-subsection 216}}
(((SICP)))
{{quick-link-srfi 216}} is fully supported. However, it defines the constant `stream-null` and the predicate
`stream-null?` which are incompatible with the ones defined in the `(stream primitive)` library used by
{{quick-link-srfi 41}} or {{quick-link-srfi 221}}. Prefix the imported symbols of this SRFI, if you plan to
use it with one of the previous libraries.

// **** SRFI-238
{{srfi-subsection 238}}

{{quick-link-srfi 238}} is fully supported. Furthermore, {{stklos}}
adds the functions `codeset-list` and `make-codeset`. 

{{insertdoc 'codeset-list}}
{{insertdoc 'make-codeset}}


:sectnums:
